rising from a hundred kilometers below
the ocean's floor
this lava has flowed non-stop for 25
years
on the lower slopes the lava travels at
less than 100 meters an hour
betraying little of its awesome power
nothing can survive this smoldering
blanket
as the crust cools it is lifted by the
lava still flowing beneath it
the advance is relentless and
unpredictable
changing direction without notice
roads here are regularly swept away
and some are now buried under 35 meters
of rock
in the last 20 years more than 200 homes
have been destroyed by kilauea's flow
and it doesn't stop here
rivers of liquid rock plunge over the
cliffs
and into the water below
this is the front line in a battle
between the elements
most of the lava is swept away before it
can settle
about inch by inch the island grows
below the waves the battle rages on
as the lava hits the water it's burning
at over a thousand degrees celsius
cold currents from the deep sed its
temperature plummeting
releasing steam with explosive
consequences
the lava fights on but it's only a
matter of time before its fire
goes out
you